[Music]
13 things that shouldn't be dumped down
the drain if you think your kitchen
drain is connected to some black hole
where your leftovers magically disappear
you're badly mistaken the things you
dump in there don't always make it very
far and there are some substances that
are particularly dangerous for your
drain number one rice and pasta pasta
and rice absorb water and expand it
takes a lot of time for them to dissolve
in water and this could easily result in
a clogged drain so next time you've just
chow down on some spaghetti scrape the
leftovers from your plate into the trash
where they belong
instead of washing them down the drain
and if you are thinking of composting
rice instead of throwing it away that's
not a good idea either
experts say rice either raw or cooked
has bacteria in it that doesn't belong
in your plants compost number two
eggshells
people think that if you break an
eggshell into little pieces it won't get
stuck but that's not true the pieces can
get stuck to each other and form one big
massive hunk over time this again can
lead to a clog start a separate
container for your eggshells they work
fine as a garden fertilizer potted plant
booster and even laundry whitener and
skin care products all those uses for
eggshells are so much better than
getting your drain clog don't you think
number three milk there's a surprising
one milk won't clog your drain but it
can cause some serious environmental
problems that poured down there in large
amounts in the UK businesses even get
fined for disposing of their dairy in
such a way it turns out that milk is a
harmful pollutant it needs lots of
oxygen to decompose when that doesn't
happen fish and other living creatures
suffocate because the oxygen they need
for life is spent on milk in the water
and so instead of pouring it down the
drain you can process it if it's not
spoiled and make organic fertilizers or
pet food when it's really bad send it to
a landfill number four flour in case you
are wondering what damage flour could
possibly do to your drain think about
what it does in baking water has a
special effect on flour
now imagine flour and water combining
inside your drain and making a glue-like
substance this sticky stuff can attract
other waste and form a huge clog to
prevent that from happening
toss it in the trash
number five coffee grounds according the
plumbers coffee grounds are one of your
drains arch-nemesis even the blissful
coffee aroma doesn't help the situation
coffee grounds stick together to form
pipe blocking gunk so guessed it throw
them in the trash or you can use them
for your plants they love coffee compost
number six oil and fats oil grease and
any fatty substances of the like are the
cause of almost 50% of all sewage
overflows in the US cooking oil mixes
with other kinds of wastes and
strengthens their clogging powers salad
dressings mayo fat for me bacon and
gravy are all terrible for your drain as
well grease fats and oils build up in
there around the grinder blades and
solidify with time and that means can
you guess a blockage instead of pouring
them down the drain it's a much better
idea to send them to trash in a separate
container or even store them for reuse
okay time out let's just get one thing
straight why is a clogged drain so
terrible in the first place the most
obvious reason is that you can do
serious and expensive damage to your
kitchen or bathroom plus the water in
your drains is dirty already and it
obviously gets worse with garbage inside
finally not only does it give off a
terrible smell but it can also cause
complications with certain health
conditions like asthma or allergies so
are you convinced just keep watching two
more to come
number seven medicine some people think
that medicine dissolves easily in water
so they throw expired pills down the
drain
I mean if it can dissolve safely in my
bowels what harm can it do to a sink
right in reality they don't dissolve in
water they contaminated water filters
can clear out most microorganisms but
there's no filter capable of cleaning
the water of contamination for medicine
number eight hair - all the long haired
beauties out there this probably comes
as no surprise hair is one of the most
common reasons why pipes get clogged in
the bathroom when the hair goes into the
tubs drain gets stuck inside and forms a
ball that acts like a net for other
waste so try to brush your hair
thoroughly before each shower you take
you can also get a special hair stopper
for your drain they're super affordable
and you can find them in pretty much any
store it'll save you a ton in the long
run number nine stickers from fruit and
jars
even if the stickers are really small
you should throw them away in the trash
instead of down the drain the problem is
that they have glue on them and the
stickers themselves are made of
materials that take a very long time to
decompose it's better to spend a couple
of extra seconds to walk to the trashcan
and get rid of them properly it's
definitely better than getting a clog
later number 10 building waste no matter
where the building waste came from you
should never put it down the drain this
goes for both tiny pieces and even
powder like debris big chunks form clogs
and the small ones can end up on the
sides of the drain and lead to even more
serious problems just don't do it period
[Music]
number 11 condoms okay a lot of people
are guilty of flushing condoms down the
toilet
but you should keep in mind that they're
made of latex which basically never
dissolves they can also stretch really
well and get stuck inside pipes
besides condoms can get filled with air
water or other waste which will lead to
a very serious clog that can be an
expensive pain in the neck to get rid of
number 12 cigarette butts
the problem with cigarette butts is that
the filter absorbs water and expands but
the worst part is that it's made of a
synthetic material that never dissolves
cigarette butts also contain loads of
harmful chemicals like nicotine which
can contaminate the water supply number
thirteen feminine products
everyone knows that feminine products
like pads and tampons are designed to
absorb liquids
well while super absorbency is exactly
what women are looking for in these
products it's a nightmare for your
toilets pipes and drain since they can
dramatically increase in size it leads
to a very serious clog seeing a pattern
here absorbing and expanding equals bad
for drains
the same goes for flushable wipes paper
towels napkins and cotton balls
are you guilty of dumping any of these
things down the drain and flushing them
down the toilet it's okay the secret
will be safe with us down in the
comments below
if you enjoyed this video let us know by
giving it a like subscribe to our
channel if you're new here and stay with
us on the bright side